This README file describes the steps that were taken to 
create a Tidy data set for the final project of the Coursera Course 3 
"Getting and Cleaning Data"of the Data Scientist Certificate.  
The source data to be cleaned is based on the
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset, Version 1.0
More information was originally available through
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto of the
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory, DITEN - 
Università degli Studi di Genova. www.smartlab.ws

This data is also available through the UC Irvine Machine Learning website

The following files are included:

1) codebook_final_tidy.pdf - This was autogenerated using the library dataMaid
and the command makeCodebook.  The description of original variables can be found
in the orignial Readme.txt and features.txt and features_info.txt files.  The
data for this new tidy dataset for this project were generated in the following
way:

a) each feature out of the 561 that had "mean" or "std" in the feature name
was selected out to be in the final tidy data.  This removed all but 79 features
for processing. 

b) for each feature, the label was cleaned so as for conform to the standard having
no special characters, and starting with a lower case letter for each word, 
followed by an upper case character for each new word.  For example, 

The 23rd feature in the original data having the label tBodyAcc-entropy()-X was
excluded from the tidy dataset because it lacked "mean" and "std"

However, the 41st feature variable, tGravityAcc-mean()-X, was included.  The 
label was transformed to read tGravityAccMeanX

c) finally, all data corresponding to a single subject and activity (such as 
subject 13, activity "walkingUpstairs") was averaged for each of the remaining 
79 features processed.  

2) this README.md file which describes the steps taken by the script
run_analysis.R

3) the run_analysis.R script - This script does the following things:

a) looks for the UCI HAR Dataset (Human Activity Recognition Using 
Smartphones Dataset, Version 1.0).  If the directory/data doesn't exist, it 
downloads the zip file (zip file location online is contained in the script),
unzips the file into a directory tree, and deletes the zip file.  

b) reads in the activities and subject keys for each of the rows of each of the
test and train data sets for the 30 subject participants.  21 participants
were randomly picked (in the original study) as train participants, and 9 
were picked as test partcipants.  

c) merges the raw data into one, and retains the test/train status as a character
identifier.  Each row contains 3 key variables (subject/activity/testOrTrain) and
79 feature variables

d) of the over 10,000 row for the remaining 79 features, the script selects out
the records for each subject and activity, then averages the values for each 
feature, and generates the average in the final tidy dataset.  This reduces the
orignial 10,000+ records to just 180, corresponding to 30 subjects and 6 activities 
each.

e) writes out the final tidy dataset to disk as final_tidy.txt


For each feature name in the original that had the string "mean" or "std", a 
set a cleaning and processing steps was performed

